# WolframTapeExhauster
A Python program that finds oscillators in Stephen Wolfram's elementary cellular automata within all possible tapes (both cylindrical and bounded) of given widths and graphs periods with respect to width.

### Why?

Recently, when reading the ConwayLife forums, I came upon a thread regarding the [isotropic non-totalistic](https://conwaylife.com/wiki/Isotropic_non-totalistic_Life-like_cellular_automaton) rule [b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k](https://conwaylife.com/forums/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=4330), which is eleven transitions (of the 102-dimensional INT rulespace) from b3s23, Conway's game of life (of which there are 102!/(11!*(102-11)!)=178,152,655,364,880 such rules). As you may expect, it behaves reasonably similarly on the scale of individual cells, and shares many small still lifes and oscillators, even two spaceships (the glider and lightweight spaceship, though the latter of which deviates every second iteration) but the emerging larger-scale self-sustaining/propagating patterns behave differently, with a greater range of common naturally-occurring elementary (indivisible) spaceships, the ["stag" oscillator](https://catagolue.hatsya.com/object/xp3_3668663/b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k) (known from another rule one transition away, called mooselife), and the [blinker-puffer](https://catagolue.hatsya.com/object/yl18_1_3_87d145c476d14227bde70119797af30c/b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k) (that leaves a trail of blinkers behind it and occurs in ~1 in 10 16\*16 "soups" of random noise). I thought people hadn't searched it for patterns very much (because the soup count seemed low), meaning interesting things remained to be seen, but it turned out to be because it's a rule where chaos stabilises more slowly (and thus takes longer to simulate than the others I had seen). Regardless, I found some interesting things in asymmetrical soups (like a [dividing reaction stabilised by a period-8 spaceship to be a period-16 tagalong](https://catagolue.hatsya.com/object/xq16_e9bgzz79d6/b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k) and a [rake for spaceships that move at 10/26ths of the speed of light](https://catagolue.hatsya.com/object/yl1872_2_1171_9131d187da1d805154cb67f72d6241e9/b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k) and some [reactions between blinker-puffers that produce more blinker-puffers perpendicularly](https://catagolue.hatsya.com/object/zz_QUADRATIC/b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k) (growing quadratically)), then looked in the forum thread again and saw some high-period radial oscillators found in censuses of rotationally-symmetrical soups, and decided to see whether any more periods could be found.

During my search, I encountered [this period-4 oscillator](https://catagolue.hatsya.com/object/xp4_g8gidrk4o0o4krdig8gz1169ba5210125ab9611zo8mpdlq4o0o4qldpm8oz0104bd2210122db401/b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k), which is an instance of [a known phenomena](https://conwaylife.com/forums/viewtopic.php?f=11&t=4330#p90947) in the rule, where two arbitrarily long barges allowing patterns of symmetrical pairs of cells in the two squares between them to dance back and forth at the speed of light. This radial oscillator contained four of these. Such natural occurrences weren't new, a [period-4 one](https://catagolue.hatsya.com/object/xp4_8ka56o8gzx2521/b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k) had occurred 20 times in 5 such symmetrical soups already. However, this one differed in that while one end was fixed off (like the other 20), the other was fixed on. After stabilising an always-on end for a single tape that doesn't require three others, I investigated the rule under which the patterns inside it dance, because their state in the subsequent turn could only be based on their state and those of their two neighbours, so they had to be a Wolfram rule. They run in rule 150 (where cells change state only if their neighbours are different (or, put another way, are their neighbourhood's sum modulus 2)), I found, so if I could find a period-13 oscillator in rule 150, I would have found one in b34kz5e7c8s23-a4ityz5k also (in which they aren't known), so created this program. However, they don't exist in tapes of width <=25, but the existence of other high prime-numbered periods so far implies that they do in some width, though probabilistic searches haven't found one either.
